# Project-Key-Code
Project Key Code software

Currently we only made a mac installer.
Run the .command file to start the installation of python (+dependencies) and Node Js (+dependencies) necessary to run the Project Key Code script. It will also setup the directories and scripts for Project Key Code.


According to the CBS (Dutch central bureau of statistics) in 2012 93,5% of people in the age group between 12 till 18 used social media daily and in 2017 this number grew to 96,5 %. This increase is more radical among people between the age of 65 till 75, growing from 23,6% in 2012 to 63,9% in 2017 with little deviation in these statistics along gender, ethnic or educational lines. The Netherlands together with Denmark and Sweden have the highest number of social media users in the European union.The Cyborg Art Collective sees this social media use as something that potentially gives rise to a cultural shift.

As Peter-Paul Verbeek points out in the book Op de vleugels van Icarus (On the wings of Icarus) influencing behavior through technology can be distinguished in four categories compelling-, persuasive-, guiding- and seductive devises. Nudging people by compelling them through build in restrictions, persuading with positive and negative feedback, guiding by having- or not having certain options, and seducing by making some actions preferable. By blocking and deleting posts, push messages and pinging sounds, options of tagging, and selectively giving you information from others, all four categories can be seen in Facebook for example. For Project Key Code the Cyborg Art Collective primarily focuses on the more subtle aspect of the guiding influence within these technological developments.

This aspect of technology guiding actions is not always a result of a conscious decision on the part of the developer. Concepts from the book Techniek: Kunst, Kermis en Theater (Technique: Art, Fair and Theater) by Petran Kockelkoren about technological mediation, the incorporation of technology and the role it plays in one's perception are important to consider. Pertran points out that one's position in the world before ever having seen a map is more central with the world stretching out around the person in every direction. With the introduction of a map one's place becomes more fixed as a point related to a overview of the planet, continent, country, province, and so forth. Getting back to the subject of social media an important question would be, where would these unintended influences caused by this mediating aspect reside?

The Cyborg Art Collective focused on the influence of online frameworks on the behavior of communication. Interestingly enough a small part of this infrastructure, the conventional-keyboard, already seems to have significant implications on this behavior. The design of this device that is essential to the use of social media provides only specific options for how one might interact with the system. A conventional keyboard works in a binary fashion in which information is either 'there' (1) or 'not there' (0). This seems not to allow the kind of nuance in communication that one sees in verbal dialogues by the mere fact that one letter when spoken can be expressed in multiple ways.

In a typographical way the keyboard dictates the options for inflection with symbols like question marks and exclamation points. An most social media platforms provide specific pictograms (Emojis) to seemingly substitute a lack of expression. Besides from the difference in nuance, one other important aspect seems to be less present. The unintended and hard to control expressions that are triggered by emotional impulses. Verbally there seems to be less control over the manner in which one speaks when feeling strongly about something. Because keyboards function in a binary fashion, when someone would press keys in frustration for example the device will not capture data about this act. So the question for Project Key Code is: to what extent can an extra layer be added to a digital dialogue to provide intonation and expression?

Project Key Code consists of two grand piano shaped desks that form a platform for two musicians to do a musical performance. The performance is a hybrid between a dialogue and a musical composition. By means of a electronic piano, chords can be played which will be translated to letters and punctuation by a server-side program. This information (including the audio) will be transferred between the two locations so the musicians can actually have a conversation using the instrument of this installation.

Also present at the two locations is a projection of the dialogue-screen so the audience can follow the conversation. Online this performance can also be viewed by the means of a website which will show this dialogue with the accompanying audio. In comparison with the common-keyboard, the use of an electronic piano as a tool for communication, provides the user with a means to apply intonation to an online conversation as a form of expression.

Project Key Code: http://ProjectKeyCode.com
